All yours. All right. Well, my name's Skip Porter.
In the birth records, you'll see Wilbur Arthur. I
saw that somewhere. Who is that? So some time ago,
we standardized on W. Arthur for kind of the
formal. But most people that know me call me Skip.
Born in Texas. Born in Irving, Texas.
Grew up in the state, educated here at North Texas
State, bachelor's and master's in physics there,
and then did a PhD work at Texas A&M in lunch
engineering or interdisciplinary engineering.
Worked in the R&D labs of Texas Instruments. In
Dallas? In Dallas. In Dallas. In the mid-60s, back
during the first large-scale integration, first
LSI days of the integrated circuit world. Those
were exciting times, I guess. Uh-huh, they were.
And
Texas A&M was interested in establishing a
microelectronics program and asked me to do that,
and I took a leave of absence from the R&D labs at
Texas Instruments. Who had you worked in with in EE
at A&M? I worked closely with, well at the time we
got him Bill Jones. I know Bill very well. Was the
department head. And John Linder was on the
faculty at that time, and Albert Druce.
Then all the kind of young guys, so to speak, that
came in at once. We got him Roland Hayden and Jack
Stone. and John Linder and myself. They were kind
of the four solid state electronic guys. So I did
that. I worked, and actually I came back to Texas
A&M in 1968 on leave to finish up my PhD. I'd come to
Texas A&M in 64 from North Texas. with a master's in
physics, and it started on my PhD in physics at
Texas A&M. I was there for two years teaching in
math and physics as an instructor while I did my PhD
work. And I finished my coursework and kind of ran
out of gas for going to school. That happens. Yeah.
And so I left Texas A&M in 66. June of 66. I always
remember my starting date, Texas Instruments was
6-6-66. Is that right? That's good. That's an easy
way to remember, yeah. And so, you know, I had been
toying with various ways to finish my PhD, either
at SMU or North Texas, and then went A&M. asked that
I come to the EE department to help start up this
microelectronics program. I agreed to do that,
took a leave from TI, went back to Texas A&M on the EE
faculty as an assistant professor, and took a
technician that had been working with me at Texas
Instruments. And we started actually physically
building in the old Bolton Hall, Texas A&M's first
facility to do research in semiconductor device
fabrication. High technology. High technology.
Comes to Aggieland. Yeah. That's interesting.
And so I put that laboratory together. I'm sure
physically you did it. Oh, I built it. I mean, you
had to build it. Literally, yeah. Al Drewson.
along with Leonard Dollarhide, who was the
technician. Did you get support from Texas
Instruments? No, this was $50,000 that TEAS, the
Texas Engineering Experiment Station, which I
ended up later directing, had put into the EE
department. And actually, how it came up,
curiously enough, was I was on campus recruiting
for Texas Instruments. And Bill Jones called over
to the recruiting office And when he learned that
Texas Instruments was there recruiting, asking
if anybody was there that could advise the EE
department on how to spend this $50,000. And so I
was asked. And I said, sure, I'll go over and talk to
them. And so I went over. And at the end of the day, we
went to dinner. And Jones and Drews asked me if I'd
be willing to come on the faculty. So that's how it
happened. And I told them no, I wasn't interested.
appreciated the invitation, but I was on a pretty
exciting project at TI, which was the continuous
diffusion program. I was working then with Jack
Kilby. Oh, so that was, okay. That's how Jack and I
met. Jack was the director of the labs. I've always
wondered how that happened. Well, he was the
director of the labs, and we had this idea that if it
was a great world, we could pour a bag of sand into a
funnel and not touch anything and integrate
circuits with I'll pop out the other end. And so my
job was to design that system. And I was right in the
middle of that and had actually applied for the
patent on what we call the continuous diffusion
system, which was the basis for the TI automated
system for bill and aggregate circuits.
But in a few weeks, maybe a few months, incubating
that idea, It was something I knew I could help
Texas A&M with. It provided a very concurrent,
comfortable way for me to finish up my PhD. It
required that I shift from physics to
engineering, which was not a hard shift for me to
make because I was kind of in device physics
anyway. Texas A&M didn't really have a an applied
physics degree. So what I did do was go into what was
called, and still is as far as I know, if it still
exists, the interdisciplinary engineering. And
so my PhD is in interdisciplinary engineering.
It's kind of a mastered combination of physics,
math, chemistry, chemical engineering,
mechanical engineering, and double E. And I had
written a proposal to NASA for support for a
research contract in the applications of space
for semiconductor device manufacturing. And in
70, when I pretty much had the laboratory together
and had completed my PhD, I was interviewing with
TI and with several other companies. So I was still
on leave. And I got this contract, this research
contract from Marshall Space Flight Center in
Huntsville, Alabama. So A&M was most interested
in me staying because it was a nice contract for the
university to have.
So you had to apply independently for that? Yeah.
I'd just written the proposal. I was the principal
investigator, and I'd just sent it in as a faculty
member. I was in unusual circumstances. I was an
assistant professor, but I was also a graduate
student. I was finishing my PhD. But I wrote the
proposal, sent it in, and got it. And that was 1970,
which was a really tough time in the industry. TI
was most pleased for me to continue to stay on
leave. from TI, maintain the link with me at Texas
A&M, but have me be an A&M employee. And I did that,
and probably until the mid-70s before we finally,
I finally said it. I didn't realize you had a big,
long TI connection. Yeah. And I still do
consulting work for TI up until that time off and
on. And then we got some TI, sporadic and small as it
was, support for the labs at A&M. So that was
kind of the early 70s, and I maintained continuous
support from NASA in the program they called
Processing in Space Reuse on Earth. There were two
of us in the country early on, a guy named Harry
Gatiss, who was a professor at MIT, And Harry was
looking at how to grow crystals. And I was looking
at how to process silicon, the advantages of low
gravity, the thermal environment with full
thermal conductivity and radiation.
So at any rate, that semiconductor device
research support continued from NASA at A&M for
quite a while, and that expanded in other areas. We
got other contracts. I had a contract with the Rome
Air Development Center Air Force support for
similar kinds of defect analysis, and we were
looking a lot at process-induced defects in
silicon and their impact on the yield of
integrated circuits. Now, are you doing any
teaching at this time? Oh yeah, I'm full-time.
Full-time teaching. I'm teaching big-time,
heavy-duty state of Texas loads, like nine hours.
In physics or engineering? No, in electrical
engineering. In electrical engineering. Well,
and in mechanical engineering. So we changed. It
was a funny occurrence because, of course, I had
been teaching both physics and math at A&M from 64
to 66. And then I was at TI from 66 to 68, and then I was
back at Texas A&M in 68. And somewhere in the early
70s, I guess it was, or maybe it was in the late 60s,
we switched because of all the complaining by the
engineering students about how tough physics was
and how many people were flunking, so that they
could take mechanical engineering instead of
physics. And then the M.E. department didn't have
enough professors to teach the M.E. courses. So I
got loaned to M.E. to teach M.E. for a while. So I
taught a lot, a lot of different classes. And then I
remember it really upset, what was the guy's name
that was... In M.E.? Uh-huh. Not McDonald. No, he
was the C.A. No, it was way before McDonald,
though. He was an old Army guy, Simons or Bob...
Crawford, no? Crawford was nuclear.
I can't remember his name either. Bob's his first
name. I'm sure he was a big, burly guy. But I flunked
half of the ME class in that course, and that wasn't
traditional over there either. Well, I used to
teach physics. We got these kids that got up for
farm. So that didn't turn out to help out much, but
at any rate, So, yeah, I was teaching full-time,
usually one or two graduate courses and or
undergraduate courses. But having really
focused on research, you were really good. Well,
yeah, and then we established in the early 70s,
somewhere, you have to go back to A&M for this
history, the Institute for Solid State
Electronics. And the first director was a guy
named Roland Haight. And Roland headed up this
institute, which the faculty members were the
guys I mentioned earlier, Stone and Hayden and
Linder and myself and Drush. And
this faculty formed the members of the institute,
which was a subset of the EE department. really had
the responsibility for building the research
programs and the laboratories. It
was about in that period where we started
designing the new engineering building, what's
now the Zachry Engineering Center. Hayden left to
take the chairmanship of EE, I think, at OU. and I
was asked to become the director of the Institute
for Solid State Electronics. And the new
building, Fred Benson was dean of engineering
then, and Fred asked me to come up with what we
thought we could use facility-wise in the Zachry
building, and so we designed the institute there.
And so when we moved out of old Bolton Hall, into the
new Zachary Center, we ended up with quite a
first-class facility for the Institute for South
State Electronics, and I brought in some other
faculty members, Don Parker, and John Ignorian,
and Raghav Pandey, and we began to build the
faculty and the graduate students, and grew the
center, the Institute, I guess at that time about a
million dollars a year. And they're heavily
research again, rather than teaching. You're
getting into a real research complex. We're
creating a strong effort in developing a strong
graduate research program, an academic research
environment, of course. A&M is just now going into
that whole moment. That's right. And that was the
challenge and the theme for A&M to try to become a
major research university. So that moves us into
about mid-70s. And it was in there that Kilby and I
started. This was during the energy crisis,
during the Carter days, during the long gas lines.
And so we started a project to develop a new type of
photovoltaic solar cell. And Kilby and I, a former
colleague the labs at DI, Jay Lathrop, who's now
gone as professor of electrical engineering at
Clemson. But Jack and Jay and I started working on a
new idea for a spherical solar cell, which we
developed in the institute at A&M and patented.
And Texas Instruments, who had retained a right of
first refusal such projects that Jack backed.
Jack had since left EI. He was operating as an
independent inventor. But Jack and I had
maintained our contacts and because we had this
capability in the labs of the Institute at A&M,
Jack and I started working,
you know, we pulled out all the corks on this
project. He's physically at A&M. No, he lives in
Dallas, but he's coming, driving back and forth
from Dallas to College Station. And gets a pretty
good introduction to the university and the life
of the people, and we gain a renewed professional
interaction together. And we are successful at
getting a $14 million DOE contract to support this
work when we transfer it to TI. So that kind of
re-establishes now, although I'm no longer on
leave of absence from TI, it kind of
re-establishes my contact back with TI through
this project. And so then I start consulting again
pretty heavily for TI in moving the technology
from Texas A&M to the labs in Dallas at Texas
Instruments. And several of the graduate
students that I had working for me then become TI
employees. And so that link, a guy named Randy
McKee I think is still there, was one of my top
graduate students at A&M, and worked closely with
Jack and me when this project was in its formative
stages at A&M. That's a good story, the
transfusion between academia and industry.
Well, and it's relevant to HARC.
Because I have always personally been a strong
believer that those two separate entities in our
society could benefit far more from one another if
they took the time to figure out how to work
together. But the historical and traditional
attitude in its fundamental sense In industry,
that's an academic, I retire a bunch, stay away
from them. In the academic community, that's
those money, grubby, profit guys, stay away from
them. And so it's very difficult to find a way to
link the two, yet on an individual basis. I was
intrigued. I very much enjoyed my experience at
Texas Instruments. I very much enjoyed my
experience at Texas A&M. clearly saw advantages
to both if they could work together. And I had, just
as an aside, but on a personal level, to the extent
that that's interesting in this talk and this
discussion,
I had begun to consult for a little company in
Portland, Oregon called Electro Scientific
Industries, which was quite a small $5 million a
year operation building laser systems to trim
thin film resistors. These are resistors that are
printed on a ceramic, and then you go in and trim the
printed resistor to value. By shaving it off, you
can increase the resistance. So they would trim
it, cut it with a laser, and monitor the resistance
and get it to just the value they wanted. And they
were trying to expand their product line to get
into the integrated circuit industry out of the
hybrid industry only. And I ended up starting to
consult for them while I was a professor at Texas
A&M. This was a company way up in Portland, Oregon.
They approached me at a conference in New York City
where I'd given a paper on semiconductor device
physics and the process of building integrated
circuits.
And as a result of that, we went to NSL to apply for
support through the old RAND program. You may
remember Research Applied to National Need.
Tried to get support because that was designed for
a small business to link with an academic research
university to help develop a new product. But
today, the bottom line is I'm chairman of the board
of that company. And the company has grown to some
$80 million a year and has market share worldwide
on a laser system used to build a DRAM memory chip.
And Jack Kilby is now also on the board of that
company. So it's a small world. They come together
and we keep the players. But that's just another
example. The reason I mention that is that's a
university-industry link that demonstrates the
ability to make it work, that it can work. And so it
was my hope for Texas A&M, A&M being what I believed
the most aggressive major research institution
in the state, in terms of seeking interaction with
the pipe sector. A&M had much more of the image and
tradition of having grease under their
fingernails. This was the nuts and bolts of
engineers. Roll up your sleeves, wait in there,
and get it done kind of attitude. Well, that's what
these NASA engineers talk about, hands-on
engineering. Hands-on engineering. A&M drifted
away from that some. We decided in some piece of the
history that followed that we needed to look more
like Harvard than MIT.
But during the days when all of this was coming
together, in engineering at least, this was while
Fred Benson was dean,
this work with Texas Instruments and
Electro-Scientific Industries was very much
positive and well received. That went on up
through the 70s. I remained as a professor of
electrical engineering, developing the
research program, publishing hot and heavy,
building a larger institute team of faculty and
graduate students and chasing the support for the
research grants. in order to establish Texas
A&M's Institute for Solid State Electronics as a
major national research facility in
microelectronics. And in 1979,
I
was asked to take the directorship of the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. By Benson? By
Benson, by Fred Benson. This was a tumultuous
time, Henry, at A&M, as you'll recall. There was
big changes on the horizon in the structure of the
system and the presidency of the university. And
I've been completely insulated. As most of the
faculty, you're oblivious to all of that. You
barely know who's president, and it's really not
so important. You kind of live in your own world.
You do your own thing. And my life was exciting and
full. At about that time, the toughest decision
was to decide which invited lecture to accept and
which trip to go on. And the biggest challenge was
keeping the contractual dollars flowing into a
growing research institute.
But I had been asked the year before by Fred Benson
again to take the presidency of the Texas A&M
Research Foundation. And I had turned that down. I
had not been interested in
that. Why did he ask you? Was that when he was? Yeah,
he was. When did he become the head of that? He had
been. He started it, didn't he? Yeah, he started
it. He started it while he was director of the
Engineering Experiment Station. Oh, I didn't
realize it. And then he was kind of... He wore both
hats. Oh, absolutely. And Fred was also,
if not the chairman of the board of the Research
Foundation, was kind of the godfather of guiding
it. And I don't know what influence he had, but I
know when I was asked to take it, it wasn't, would
you consider being a candidate? I mean, she just
walked in my office and said, we'd like to make you
president of the foundation, and I'd like for you
to think about it. And I did, and told him I wasn't
interested. So I turned that down the year before,
and then he came in and called me down. It was off,
and he said, okay, Porter, we want to make you
director of the Texas Indian Experimental
Station. And my first reaction was, well, I'm not
interested in that. I mean, I'm doing what I want to
do, and I've kind of hit a stride here. It's getting
easier to do what I want to do, and it's expanding,
and we really are building and growing in
reputation worldwide.
But he was persistent, and I thought, all right, I
need to think about this. And I was leaving for
China. I had been invited with nine other double
E's from kind of all over the country to go on an
early mission. This was September of 79. And we
were going to be gone a month, traveling all over
the PRC. And
Benson told me I had to give him my decision before I
left. He hadn't had the decision by the beginning
of the academic year, and this was about
mid-August when he called me in, so I had a couple
weeks to think about it. And a guy named Bob Page had
just been brought in as dean of engineering, and
I had no idea this was a request by Fred, and I asked
him, and Jarvis Miller was president of the
university, and Frank Hubert was in as
chancellor. Well, that wasn't interim period. So
I went over to see Jarvis. Well, first thing I did
was ask Fred who else he had talked to, and he said
nobody, that he wanted to know how I felt about it. I
said, well, I'll think about it, but I guess I feel
like we need to find out how Jarvis, well,
particularly Jarvis and Bob Page. And so Fred just
called Bob Bates down to his office. Fred was then
deputy chancellor for engineering. We went
through a lot of different structures during this
time trying to figure out how to run the place.
Bob and I went to lunch following that, and I told
him, I said, look, you're the new dean here.
This is it. before I even want to consider this
appointment, I'd like for this to be something
that you feel like makes sense, and you don't know
me from Adam, why don't you go check me out, and
after you've had some time to do that, give me a
call. And he called back in, I think it was the next
day, or probably maybe two days at most, but I
believe it was the next day, and said, you know,
let's do this. If you're willing to do it, let's do
it. So I got another stop or two to make, so then I
went over to see Jarvis.
Jarvis. felt the same way. He knew what it was all
about. Oh yeah, he'd been director of takes.
But between, and I'm not going to go into all that in
this, it's probably ought to be written down
somewhere and sealed, but between that moment and
the actual transition to where I took the
directorship was a pretty interesting time.
Actually, I guess at that moment, Frank Hubert was
not, at that specific moment, Frank Hubert had not
been asked to come in as interim chancellor. It was
just in advance of that. Because I went off to
China, having agreed that I would accept the
directorship. which Fred promptly announced to
the entire faculty while I was gone. And so when I
returned to campus, I was greeted by my colleagues
with great response to this announcement. And
then the system went apart. The university at the
moment, at that moment when I agreed to do that, the
agencies reported to the university president,
which Jarvis had gotten the board to agree to
change from reporting to the system. And when
Jarvis finally was in, when Jarvis finally
transitioned out of the presidency,
the system was reorganized. Hubert was
chancellor And the system went back to the mode in
which it had been, where then all of the agencies
were autonomously managed along with the
universities in the system, and did not report to
the board through the president, but through the
chancellor. And so I went through a little
interesting period of meeting Frank and
discussing all of this.
And finally it got out to the point where I told all
of them I wasn't interested in the job.
But the bottom line was it finally did happen in
March.
And so from 1980 through for the five years from
1980 through 1984, I was director of the Texas
Indian Experiment Station. If you had a
philosophy as director of the Experiment
Station, I was
interested. I went back and read the original
legislation of 1914 that created the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. And the
comments from previous directors, the first one
was a guy named Spence, as I recall. And in point of
fact, the Texas Engineering Experimental
Station had never really functioned as a state
agency like the Texas... Well, it functioned as if
it was, but it was not. It was a state agency created
by an act of the legislature, and the director had
fiduciary responsibility for taxpayers' money
and got the money directly from the legislature,
just like that. But they didn't get much money, as I
recall. No, they didn't. But we changed that. We
turned that around, which was one of my objectives
and one of my challenges. And what I was asked by the
Board of Regents to do was to turn TEAS into a true
state agency and to branch it out statewide and to
have it work for Texas all the way across the state,
like the Agricultural Experiment Station. And to
make it something different than a research
instrument of the College of Engineering of Texas
A&M University only. And as a faculty member of
Texas A&M, a
professor of electrical engineering, I walked
down to the Texas Engineering Experiment Station
office And the dean of the College of Engineering
of Texas A&M University was also the director of
the Texas Engineering Experiment Station, so you
couldn't tell the difference. And the resources
of the Texas Engineering Experiment Station were
predominantly used, if not totally used, by a
faculty of Texas A&M University in the College of
Engineering.
So that was my tradition, my expectation, my
experience. When in September, after talking to
Paige and Miller, I agreed to take the job. When in
March, I was put into the position, I was then
reporting to the board through the chancellor.
And the board and the chancellor said, Porter,
turn this into a bona fide state agency that can
serve the state. And as that began to happen, and it
did, we did it. It created some serious
consternation on the campus of Texas A&M. But we
opened divisions of the Engineering Experiment
Station at UT Arlington. at Lamar University, at
Prairie View A&M University, at the specific
request of von Breit to try to help that
institution gain some breadth. And at the time I
left, I was in very substantive discussion with
Peter Flon and Jerry Fonkin. about the
possibility of T's operating the balconies in
Austin, which would have been a UT-Austin-Texas
A&M connection that I think would have been
extremely healthy for the state.
But back at the ranch, meantime, I had also
established the education technology division
to help the College of Education at Texas A&M
University to develop a research program. I had to
establish the business technology division to do
the same thing with the college business. Bill
Muse and then Bill Mobley headed those two
divisions up. And we went from zero funded dollars
in the college of business to a million dollars
pretty quickly. So TEAS was beginning to branch
out, as I had been asked to make it do. And our state
revenue went from what had been $1 million a year to
$6 million a year from the state. And we were
turning that in leveraging outside contract
dollars into a total operational budget in excess
of $30 million.
I learned a lot. about the politics of Texas, about
the politics of higher education, about the
politics of Texas A&M, and state agencies. What
about private business cooperation? Was there
much of that kind of activity? Yes, and that was one
of the real leverages of TEAS for particularly
Texas A&M, was it was a place, because it was a
separate agency, it wasn't a line item in the
university budget. It was its own budget. And it
had some leveraged advantages for the university
that a lot of the colleges were seeing how to take
advantage of. One of the problems has been
historically, and always will be historically,
the issue is one of control. It's who's running the
place, the system or the university or the agency.
Sure. And it always will. And it's why chancellors
and presidents have a hard time getting along. And
unless chancellors, in my judgment, can rise to
the level of kind of statesmen, national and
international statesmanship, to speak to the
larger issue philosophically of the needs of
higher education and can pontificate those
points at the national and international level
representing a state and a system within the
state's views rather than worrying about which
classes are being taught on campus and leave that
to the administrative operation and the
president of that campus and rise up to another
level. The greatest conflict occurs within our
educational systems when everybody wants to be
sure they're in charge of the football coach or the
curriculum.
But in the case, as I see it still today, and as I saw
it then, in the case of the Engineering Experiment
Station, we had the advantage of being able to
focus on research and move aggressively. As an
institution, we were not encumbered with
teaching responsibilities. And we had the
resources. We got the money. from the legislature
directly and had full authority independent of
any other entity on what to do with those
resources. Including the board of A&M? Oh, no. The
board approved the budget. Right. But the board
was given legislative authority So once the board
approved your budget,
that was before the fact because you didn't go to
the legislature to argue your budget until the
board had reviewed what you asked for or what you
were planning to ask for. So by the time the session
was over and the money was appropriated, the
authority was already there. And in the case of the
state agencies, particularly the ag experience
station and the engineering experience station,
it had some unusual advantages, maybe unique
advantages, because it got to keep all its own
indirect costs.
Because in essence, we were the, let me rephrase
that, the university was the reluctant landlord
of the agencies. Because where that coupling
occurred was the facilities and the buildings in
which these agencies operated were budgeted. The
facilities were budgeted through the
university. And if you put yourself in the
position of the president of the university or,
say, the vice president for research,
They didn't have near the authority or the power,
that is the resources, the dollars, to build a
research program that those two agencies did. And
so from their perspective, the tail was wagging
the dog. And it's an understandable one. Yet when
you put yourself in the position of the director of
the agency, that's his job. That's right. And you
may, well, yeah, and your boss is the same boss as
the president of the university. And when the
entire board of regents stands in unison and
applauds what you're doing, and the other guy is
getting his, and he's saying, hmm, I don't think I
like this a whole lot, and it can create and did and
still does and always will. I don't think it's a
matter of personality. It's a matter of drawing
the lines on the diagram. We, I think, waded
through a lot of the awkwardness of that
fairly well, just working through personal
relationships. But it was such a tumultuous
period within the A&M system. The whole world,
yeah. The turmoil, yeah. I really grew quite bored
with it. And then the chancellor changed. Art
Hanson came in. then the dean changed. It was, and
this was part of the period when A&M, in my
judgment, was trying to create a different kind of
scholarly image for itself, which I didn't
particularly, well, I didn't like and still
don't. I think it was a big time mistake. But, so be
it. That's life. So, that's The 80 to 85 period, you
asked the question about industry. We worked
closely with like the Ford Motor Company. I
remember one interesting call I got. You may
remember the period when Ford had the problem with
their automatic transmissions jumping out of
reverse. Yeah. I got a call from the vice president
of research at Ford, and he wanted to know if we
could do an analysis on the hydraulic
transmission. And I immediately knew why he was
calling. I said, sure, we could. I said, does this
have to do with your transmission jumping out of
reverse? Well, yes, as a matter of fact, it does.
And we've got a testimony before the Senate
hearing in 30 days. And we'd like to have an
independent assessment. And I thought, oh, boy,
that could really be a political hot potato. But we
had the talent that could evaluate. And the more I
thought about that, I decided this was the
occasion where we needed to do a public service. So
I told him. I said, yeah, we'll do it under two
conditions. The first one is obvious, but I just
stated that we'll tell you whatever we find. And
the second is we'll accept no payment.
What did he say then?
Well, he agreed to it. We did it. And I don't recall
what the results were. But I wanted to be sure he
fully understood that our opinion wasn't for
sale. And B, furthermore, that I didn't want to
subject Texas A&M to even the scrutiny that we had
sold an opinion, regardless of what it was, so that
we'd do this as a public service for free. You have
to. I'm glad you thought of that. Well, but then we
did a lot of work for them. And we did work for TI. We
did work for Boeing. We did work for Shell. We did
work for, I mean, I'm just grabbing names now, a
cross section of industries. And that was the
engineering, that was the concept of the
legislature, which isn't a one-to-one analogy
with the agricultural industry. The agrarian
society was very different and continues to be.
Parity doesn't exist in the automotive or the
electronics industry like it does in the corn
industry or the cotton or cattle. Competitive.
Yeah. But let me mention one other thing that may be
relevant to the Hark story. Of course, I
personally had come out of industry. Yeah, you
know, I was thinking about everything you've been
telling me. Had you not had that several years'
experience at TI, I think your perspective of the
world and your knowledge of the world may have been
substantially different. Oh, very
substantially different, no question about it.
And my continuing work in relationship with
electroscientific industries was a very
educational period for me. In having home base in
the academic community in America, but taking
full advantage of the academic policy of giving
your professors one day a week to go off and do
consulting and maintaining my ties back to
corporate America and my involvement. At this
point in time, the 80 to 85 period, I went on the
board of directors of electroscientific
industries. I began to function not only as a
consultant, but as a director of a corporation, a
high-tech corp in this country. So the first time
you're really getting a broad profile of
industry. Yeah, and I'm beginning to gain an
understanding. We took this company from a
privately, very closely held company. We took it
public.
So I got the full-blown experience as a board
member of going through a... an initial public
offering of a privately held company, a good bath
in the Securities and Exchange Commission
regulation and all of the aspects of what that
involves. So I'm gaining during this period an
awful lot of experience in business as well as
academic, as well as state politics. In 1980, when
I took over the directorship of the experiment
station, Well, I was a greenhorn professor with a
little bit of industry experience and having
demonstrated an ability to pull together an
institute with a group of faculty and begin to
attract federal R&D dollars. But I had never
walked on the floor of the House or the Senate and
argued before a committee a budget for a state
agency, which is what I had to do. And it was a budget
I had not put together. It was a budget that Fred had
put together. But they just handed me the budget
and said, Here's when the legislature meets. This
is when your session is. Good luck, son. So it was a
great experience. So I began to learn the
political process, the budgeting process, how to
deal with the legislature,
how a budget for a state budget was put together,
how a university or a system budget was put
together.